# My Project

Works done as part of the VERITAS collaboration in the Summer of 2021 (McGill University). The analysis done is summarized in: _“Introduction to DL3-analysis with VERITAS data and Validation of Gammapy, an open-source science tool for ground-based gamma-ray instruments”_ that I wrote in the wiki of the collaboration.


Goal of the project is to use the python-based Gammapy package to validate the analysis of the properties of various astorphysical sources studied under the VERITAS Collaboration (https://veritas.sao.arizona.edu).

Analysis of the sources:
- Crab (Nebula)
- 1ES 1959+650 (HBL: Blazars)
- LS5039 / HESS J1826-148 (LBL: Binary system)
- MRK501 (HBL: Blazars)
- RGBJ0710+591 (HBL: Blazars)
- Boomerang (Nebula)

The Crab Nebula is the most important source for validation, as it represents the most luminous and studied source of the VERITAS database. It was also the only source at the time with coast-to-coast runlist. 

Other sources like the BL Lac (HBL) are also very luminous making them ideal for validation. 

The LS5039 / HESS J1826-148 is the analysis of a binary system

Boomerang at the time was a recent source found and did not have many runlist. It provides the opportunity to study newer sources with Gammapy.



### FOR NON-VERITAS MEMBERS
I cannot provide the runlist data for any of these sources, thus the code cannot be run. 

### FOR VERITAS MEMBERS
 `runlist_investigated.csv` contains all the runlist data investigated for the different sources. Typically, I pick the most luminous runlist for each of the sources. Also, I produced a code to generate the background fit files + description and it is available on the VERITAS wiki.



## Installation

To install the project, you can use the following command:



pip install gammapy==0.18.2

pip install astropy==4.2.1

pip install matplotlib pandas numpy astropy scipy

(VERSION VALID IN MAY 2021, NEWER VERSION MIGHT CAUSE ISSUES)



## Usage

Download the runlist of each sources in `runlist_investigated.csv` in the VERITAS database. On the `python` file, change the path to open these fit files.


#### Crab sources:
- `Crab_Coast_to_coast_azimuth_bins_separation.ipynb`, `Crab_Coast_to_coast_zenith_and_azimuths_bins_separation.ipynb`, `Crab_Coast_to_coast_zenith_bins_separation.ipynb`:  Coast to coast analysis of crab source at different angles.
- `crab_copy_dl3_analysis.ipynb`: Tutorial of Gammapy
- `Crab_Try_with_BKG_created_in_the_cluster.ipynb`: Use the full runlist of the coast-to-coast crab sources and analysed the background generated by our code.

#### Other sources
- `<name_of_sources>.ipynb`: Analysis of some of the runlist of the source without the background. The analysis serves to validate gammapy.
- `<name_of_sources>_with_bkg.ipynb`: Serves to validate gammapy, but also our codes to generate the background fit files, available on the VERITAS wiki.






